In this video, we are going to implement
find owner. We want to have a web
form where we can search by last name
for owners. Let's take a quick look
at how the Spring guys implemented it. So
there's two methods that are going to be
in play. One is a GetMapping for owners
find and we are going to initialize the
find form. They're doing something
unique here. They're passing in a map a
String Object, model rather than Model
and I'm going to pass in the model
object because that's how I prefer to do things.
What we want to do is we want to
initialize a owner and put that into the
model for that form and then we'll
return back the view. So I'll go ahead
and implement that. And now the response
is a little more interesting. When we
process it, they're going to go through
and do some processing on that. They
got a couple things here that are being
interesting so to speak. They
want to do allow parameter lists get
to return all records. You can see
they're in line 80 and then they're
going to bring back the collection. So
they get a few different things here.
If it's empty, they're going to reject it
and return back to the list. So they do
a result rejectValue not found.
So this is going to reject the binding
result and submit it back to the form
and display a message on it and then if
it's 1, if we just get one, we're going to
display that owner
so we'll do a redirect to owners get
owner ID to display that specific owner.
If we have multiple found, we want to
return back the owners list. So a few
different things that we want to see
here actually happen so we are going to
go ahead and implement this. And then the
search function, let's take a look at the
OwnerRepository also. I'm not going to
implement it this way I'm going to use
Spring Data JPA for this. They are doing
a named query to go back and search it
so this is one technique to do that.
I'm actually going to implement this
using Spring Data JPA
and I'll show you how we get into that.
Now let's jump over to IntelliJ. Again my
implementation is going to be a little
bit different. I wanted to review what
the Spring guys did in pet clinic
here but I'm going to show you a different
technique to do effectively the same
thing.
So let's come back over here to IntelliJ.
Now I do need to implement these methods.
You can see here I've gone in and
written some tests. Let's bring
up the first one here.
So findOwners, that originally returned
back of you not implemented. Now we are
going to implement that. We want to
return back owners findOwners and it
should have an attribute of owner and
then we are going to verify that there's
zero interactions with the ownerService.
Now this here gets a little bit
different. I want to do an ownerService.
I'm going to expand that out to findAll
ByLastNameLike and this is a Spring
Data JPA naming syntax so I'm doing find
all which will return back all
matches. Last name is the property and
then I'm doing a like to do a like on
that. You can see this is red because
it's not implemented. Then I'm going to
say return back the Set of owners that
we have for our tests. I'll return
back to and then I've set up the tests
to also provide that. So when we do
this get action against the owners, we
should get back a list in this example.
Now on line 92, I'm going to test the route
for just one. So actually that's a
mistake there because this should
actually return back owner.
Let's double check that. I'm going to mimic
this one here so that it should return
back owneId. So go back here.
I got two test that I'm setting up here.
One to return back many, I should
display the list. And then the second one
is returning that one and it should not
display the specific one. So I've set up
these tests, right now, if I run this it's
not going to compile because I haven't
implemented these methods. So that's the
first thing that we want to do here is
go in and implement this find all by
last name. I'm just going to copy that
and come back here to our services Owner
Service. Let's modify him.
That should be a String like so. This here, this
exact method name it also needs to be
put on the repository so the OwnerRepository. You can see here I did
findAllByLastName. That was kind of a
mistake in retrospect. Ultimately we're
not going to be using that but I'm going
to leave it in place for right now. So
we'll implement that. And now I need to
go in and my map implementations got to
break. It should break.
I'm not going to do that map right now.
If somebody wants to implement this and
submit me a pull request, please do so
but I'm going to leave this open for right
now. I primarily want to do the
Spring Data JPA one. That's more
interesting. So I can see that we also
need to implement that method here.
What we're going to do is owner
Repository.
Looking in the wrong spot.
Not petRepository
John. Owner. We're going to be
doing findAll that till Spring Data
JPA to do a search for all and lastName
is the property name and then finally
like. Then we say last name Like so. So that
implements that inside a String Data JPA.
Now let's come back over to our test.
You can see now these are happy.
Let's see here and owners is a Set and do a
errase this list. Yeah let's do this. I'm going
to just going to steal this, chunk of code
right here
rather than mess around converting a set
to ArrayList.
I just need two objects returned
back in this test.
Let me pause this here for a second.
Okay.
I skipped ahead a little bit just to
save you a time watching me stumble
through some of the coding. So now I
have the test running and let's go ahead.
I'm following a test-driven development
approach here so let's go ahead and run
these tests. We should see them fail.
So now we have three failing tests as expected so
Let's go ahead and fix the test now.
Again this is a test-driven development.
We can see here that the find method is
not functioning properly. So let's go
back to the OwnerController. Let's drag
you over here since we'll be working
with you and now this findOwners not
implemented. What we want to do again,
let's take a look at the Spring
implementation here. We're doing initFindForm. They're passing in a Map
and we want a model put there so let's
come in here and do it our way. You're
going to do Model.
Now what we want to do is
owner.
Again, we're following the Builder
pattern here so slightly different from
declaring the object what new and then
we should be returning back the find
owners form, like so. Come in here. Add
that and now if we come in and rerun our
failing test,
you'll see that one magically fixed itself
so that is now functioning properly. Now
we need to process basically this Get
Mapping here. I'm going to grab this
method signature right. Steal that
directly from the Spring guys.
And here rather than that,
I want the Model itself.
We do want the binding result
like so.
Let's grab this and we're just
going to modify this. I am doing the
evils of cut and paste. Do not do that.
So this is good here
and now this is going to be a List.
Again the logic here, we have the
results ownerService findAllByLast
NameLike. If it comes back empty, we are
going to reject the value. If we only
have 1, like so, we are going to return
back owner result
so we'll do a redirect to the owners to
display that and then finally here that
becomes addAttribute
selections results ownersList. I'm
going to double-check that selections.
Let's take a look at that view
and yes selections. I just want to double
check that views being like that so that
is good.
Now let's rerun our tests. See if that
logic is implemented.
And these are still unhappy. Let's take a
closer look at this.
owners/index. That should not do that.
So results.
We know that it's an ArrayList. We
only have one index zero so that should
fix that one.
And again
let's rerun that.
Let's take a closer look at this. It's
the nice thing about having a test. We
can actually run it inside the debugger
so I'm going to do the find one first. Let's
go ahead and debug him
and see exactly what's happening here.
You did not even get to my
breakpoint so
GetMapping...
Let's take a closer look
going on here.
Debug you again.
Ah, my mistake. So I get
owners owners so this is never going to
happen. Let's go ahead and get rid of
that. What was happening is coming in
here and doing a get and returning this
so I was falling into the wrong attribute all
together. This might not actually
work either.
Double-check to see
what they did here.
So I have that implementation to bring up
the list and what's happening is I'm
falling into this one so let's go ahead
and I don't think I need this guy
anymore.
Because before, it would just display
everything. So now we're going to change the
functionality of the application a
little bit to actually go here into this
implementation here. So let's go ahead
and see he's here. We should run now. Let's
go ahead and run them.
and then our assertion is failing. So 302 is
an HTTP redirect. So let's fix our test
there.
Redirection. This here probably, I'm
guessing this is going to be the same.
So we'll fix
one at a time here.
So I should have been a redirection as
well.
I could change that. That's a
problem with my test so that
actually should be that.
We're just going through fixing
there as one at a time and making sure
their tests are right.
We're still not happy.
I just gone through this. This here
returned one, that should redirect and I
shouldn't have a model attribute here on
that. So that is a invalid one.
We should just have a redirect of one
so let's go ahead and test that.
That is good
now. The return Many, let's take a look
at him.
Owners list so that's going to be
different.
That's going to be isOk.
We should have collection of zero
but was null so let's
double check that.
That's a problem in the model
property. So they're doing selections
there. I did owners so I'm going to follow
that and that should be selections. So I
don't like the terminology. That's also
used in the Thymeleaf form so I'm going to
go ahead and roll with that.
And that is
good. Let's go ahead and run all our
tests now. I think we can call this
one done.
And listOwners is broken.
This actually goes away because I got
rid
of that. So let's go ahead. I'm just
going to delete this test because it's no
longer valid because originally I had
the functionality to go into the
controller and we got rid of this
functionality so I'm going to get rid of
that comment about it
code as well. Now let's rerun
our failing tests.
Going to pause this a second.
So I brought that. My mistake. We had two
test methods looking at that. So we can
get rid of this one as well. I took a
moment to make sure I was speaking right
here. So we can get rid of him as well. So
now let's go ahead and run all our tests.
That functionality works so let's
bring up the application now and go and
give that a test. Take a look at it. This
videos getting a little long but we'll
make sure that it's functioning properly.
We are up and running. Let's come over to
Chrome.
Home find owners. We can see that we
get a 500 error on this so let's take a
look at that.
So it's looking for lastName on
owners so that could be a different
implementation. Let's take a quick look
at that.
firstName lastName
I think we have a name mismatch there so
form field lastName. I'm going to pause
this again. Okay I've made a pretty simple
mistake here. I needed to look at this
closer. What's happening here, right here,
it says OwnersOwnerBuilder so I made
a mistake in the controller by not
passing the type. So if we come back over
here to the controller,
I'll show exactly what I'm doing. I have
Owner.builder() but I forgot to do build
to make that an Owner object rather than
the Builder object. So let's go ahead and
build a project.
Now I'll update to type and you can see
the build action inside of IntelliJ
triggered the reload of the Spring
Context. Now let's come over here. Refresh
this. See this? See if
we can find Weston and now we got
Michael Westen.
Find owners find all
has not been found.
That should work.
So find by is not working
properly but the equals works.
So I'm going to follow that
bug and we'll look at that in next video.
This one got pretty long. So I am going
to call that good. We'll go ahead.
I can't remember that issue number. So
number 54.
Git commit.
And let's go ahead and create a new
issue. I'll say...
And label that as a bug and we'll
fix that in a future video here.